#separator:tab
#html:true
#tags column:8
Select the indirect narration of the given sentence. <br>He said to the hotel receptionist, “Can you tell me the tariff of rooms?	He enquired the hotel receptionist if he can tell him the tariff of rooms.	He asked the hotel receptionist if he could tell him the tariff of rooms.	He asked the hotel receptionist that if he can tell him the tariff of rooms	He asked the hotel receptionist to tell him the tariff of rooms.	2		ENG Narration Prelims-23
Select the correct indirect form of the given sentence. <br>He said to me, &quot;What are you doing?&quot;	He asked me what I was doing.	He asked me that what was I doing.	He said that what I was doing	He said what I had been doing.	1		ENG Narration Prelims-24
Select the option that expresses the given sentence in reported speech.<br>She said to me,&quot; What time is your flight the next day?&quot;	She asked me what time is my flight the next day.	She asked me what time my flight was the following day	She asked me what time my flight will be the next day.	She asked me that what time was my flight tomorrow	2		ENG Narration Prelims-25
Select the correct direct form of the given sentence.<br>The teacher commanded the students not to shout.	The teacher said to the students, &quot;Don’t shout.”	The teacher said to the student, &quot;You should not shout.”	The teacher told to the students, &quot;You must not shout.”	The teacher says to the students, &quot;Do not shout.&quot;	1		ENG Narration Prelims-26
Select the correct indirect form of the given sentence.<br>The teacher said to me, “You have not submitted the assignment.”	The teacher told me that I had not submitted the assignment.	The teacher said to me that I have not submitted the assignment.	The teacher told to me that I have not submitted that assignment.	The teacher said me that I had not submitted the assignment.	1		ENG Narration Prelims-27
Select the correct indirect form of the given sentence.<br>The lawyer said to me, &quot;There is no proof of your involvement in this case.&quot;	The lawyer told that there is no proof of my involvement in that case.	The lawyer said me that there was no proof of my involvement in this case.	The lawyer told me that there was no proof of my involvement in that case.	The lawyer told me that there is no proof of your involvement in this case.	3		ENG Narration Prelims-28
Select the correct indirect form of the given sentence.<br>&quot;What a good idea!&quot;, Seema remarked.	Seema said what a good idea it is.	Seema exclaimed that it was a very good idea.	Seema told what an idea!	Seema exclaimed that the idea is good.	2		ENG Narration Prelims-29
Select the correct indirect form of the given sentence.<br>“Hello”, he said to his friend. “What can I do for you?”	He said hello and asked his friend what can do for him.	He asked and greeted his friend that what he can do for him.	He told hello and asked his friend what he could do for him.	He greeted his friend and asked what he could do for him.	4		ENG Narration Prelims-30
Select the indirect narration of the given sentence.<br>He said to me, &quot;What time do the banks open and close?&quot;	He asked me what time do the banks open and close.	He said me what time did the banks open and close.	He asked me what time the banks opened and closed.	He wanted to know what time the banks open and close.	3		ENG Narration Prelims-31
Select the correct indirect form of the given sentence.<br>&quot;What a rare flower!&quot; she said.	She exclaimed that it was a very rare flower.	She told that what a rare flower it was.	She exclaimed what a rare flower it is.	She asked if it was a rare flower.	1		ENG Narration Prelims-32
Select the correct indirect form of the given sentence.<br>Mahesh said to Rita, &quot;Don't play in the sun.&quot;	Mahesh advised Rita not to play in the sun.	Mahesh told to Rita to not play in the sun.	Mahesh requested Rita that don't play in the sun.	Mahesh ordered Rita that not play in the sun.	1		ENG Narration Prelims-33
Select the correct indirect narration of the given sentence.<br>She said, &quot;We visited Uttarakhand in the summer vacation.&quot;	She said that they had visited Uttarakhand in the summer vacation.	She said that they will visit to Uttarakhand in the summer vacation.	She said that they have visited Uttarakhand in the summer vacation.	She said that we visited Uttarakhand in the summer vacation.	1		ENG Narration Prelims-34
Select the correct indirect form of the given sentence.<br>The traveller said to a passerby, &quot;Can you help me find my way, please?''	The traveller asked the passerby if he could kindly help him find his way.	The traveller asked the passerby that he can kindly help him find his way.	The traveller requested to the passerby if he can help him find his way.	The traveller asked the passerby could you kindly help me find my way?	1		ENG Narration Prelims-35
Select the correct indirect form of the given sentence.<br>The guard said to the visitors, &quot;Do not take photographs inside the museum.&quot;	The guard warned the visitors not to be taking photographs inside the museum.	The guard forbade the visitors to take photographs inside the museum.	The guard told the visitors that do not take photographs inside the museum.	The guard requested the visitors to not took photographs inside the museum.	2		ENG Narration Prelims-36
Select the correct indirect form of the given sentence.<br>The Principal has said, &quot;Mr. Surinder will coach the football team.&quot;	The Principal has said if  Mr. Surinder would coach the football team.	The Principal has said that Mr. Surinder will coach the football team.	The Principal said that Mr. Surinder would coach the football team.	The Principal has asked that will Mr. Surinder coach the football team.	2		ENG Narration Prelims-37
Select the correct indirect form of the given sentence.<br>Rahul said to his mother, "Can I go out and play now?"	Rahul asked to his mother could he go out and play now.	Rahul asked his mother that could he go out and play then.	Rahul asked his mother if he could go out and play then.	Rahul asked his mother if can he go out and play now.	3		ENG Narration Prelims-38
Select the correct indirect form of the given sentence.<br>“What are you going to call the puppy, Jane?” the boy asked.	Jane asked the boy what is he going to call the puppy.	The boy told Jane what she was going to call her puppy.	The boy wondered what Jane were going to call the puppy.	The boy asked Jane what she was going to call the puppy.	4		ENG Narration Prelims-39
Select the correct indirect form of the given sentence.<br>Johnny’s mother said, “Johnny, run down to the grocer’s and get a loaf of French bread and a pound of cheddar cheese.”	Johnny’s mother asked him to run down to the grocer’s and get a loaf of French bread and a pound of cheddar cheese.	Johnny commanded his mother to go down to the grocer and buy a loaf of French bread and a pound of cheddar cheese.	Johnny’s mother pleaded with John to run down to the grocer’s and get her a loaf of French bread and a pound of cheddar cheese.	Johnny asked his mother to run down to the grocer’s and get a loaf of French bread and a pound of cheddar cheese.	1		ENG Narration Prelims-40
Directions: Select the option that expresses the given sentence in indirect speech.<br>“Everything is going to be alright,” said the doctor.	The doctor said that everything are going to be alright.	The doctor said that everything will be alright.	The doctor said that everything was going to be alright.	The doctor said that everything is going to be alright.	3		ENG Narration Prelims-41
Select the option that expresses the given sentence in reported speech.<br>“Is he alright now?” I asked my neighbour’s wife about her husband, Mr. Gulyani.	I asked Mrs. Gulyani, my neighbour's wife, if her husband was alright then	I asked Mrs. Gulyani, my neighbour's wife, if your husband will be alright now.	I asked Mrs. Gulyani, my neighbour's wife, if her husband had become alright then	I asked Mrs. Gulyani, my neighbour's wife, if her husband is alright now	1		ENG Narration Prelims-42
Directions: Select the option that expresses the given sentence in indirect speech.<br>“Read the instructions before you start making the dish,” Deepa's mother said to her.	Deepa's mother told her to read the instructions before she started making the dish.	Deepa's mother told to her to read the instructions before you start making the dish.	Deepa's mother said her to read the instructions before she start making the dish.	Deepa's mother told her to read the instructions before you had made the dish.	1		ENG Narration Prelims-43
Select the option that expresses the given sentence in reported speech.<br>&quot;Whom did you see at the shopping mall today?” I asked my daughter.	I asked my daughter that whom did she saw at the shopping mall that day.	I asked my daughter who she has seen at the shopping mall today.	I asked my daughter that whom she saw at the shopping mall on that day.	I asked my daughter whom she had seen at the shopping mall that day.	4		ENG Narration Prelims-44
Select the option that expresses the given sentence in indirect speech.<br>The teacher said, “Man is mortal.”	The teacher instructed that man was mortal.	The teacher said that man is mortal.	The teacher said that man was mortal.	The teacher said that men were mortal.	2		ENG Narration Prelims-45
Select the option that expresses the given sentence in reported speech.<br>&quot;Is the door closed?&quot; Alka asked Tarun.	Alka asked Tarun is the door close.	Alka asked Tarun if the door is closed.	Alka asked Tarun whether she closed the door.	Alka asked Tarun whether the door was closed.	4		ENG Narration Prelims-46
Select the option that expresses the given sentence in indirect speech.<br>“How beautiful she is!” said Betty.	Betty exclaimed with joy she is very beautiful.	Betty exclaimed with joy that she was very beautiful.	Betty exclaimed with joy how beautiful she was.	Betty exclaimed with joy how beautiful she is.	2		ENG Narration Prelims-47
Directions: Select the option that expresses the given sentence in reported speech. <br>&quot;I'll see you later,&quot; she said.	She said that she will be able to see you later.	She said that she would be seeing me later	She said that she would see me later.	She said that she will see you later.	3		ENG Narration Prelims-48
Directions: Select the option that expresses the given sentence in indirect speech.<br>“I will work hard to get the first rank in class,” said Rohan.	Rohan said that he should work hard to get the first rank in class.	Rohan said that he would work hard to get the first rank in class.	Rohan said that he ought to work hard to get the first rank in class.	Rohan said that he could work hard to get the first rank in class.	2		ENG Narration Prelims-49
Select the option that expresses the given sentence in indirect speech.<br>Sneha said to me, “I was watching TV.”	Sneha told me that she was watching TV.	Sneha said to me that I was watching TV.	Sneha told me that she had been watching TV.	Sneha told me that I was watching TV.	3		ENG Narration Prelims-50
Select the option that expresses the given sentence in reported speech.<br>The policeman said, “It is clear that this is the work of a professional robber”	The policeman said that it had been clearly the work of a professional robber.	The policeman said that it was clear that this was the work of a professional robber.	The policeman said it was clear that is the work of a professional robber.	The policeman said that it must be clear that this was the work of a professional robber.	2		ENG Narration Prelims-51
Directions: Select the option that expresses the given sentence in indirect speech.<br>Raj said to his friend, “Please help me in this task.”	Raj ordered his friend to help him in this task.	Raj requested his friend to help him in that task.	Raj threatened his friend to help him in this task.	Raj said to his friend please help me in this task.	2		ENG Narration Prelims-52
Directions: Select the option that expresses the given sentence in indirect speech.<br>The professor said to the media persons, “From our research we have come to the conclusion that there is life on that planet.”	The professor informed the media persons that from our research we have come to the conclusion that there had been life on that planet.	The professor said to the media persons from our research you had come to the conclusion that there was life on that planet.	The professor told the media persons that from their research they had come to the conclusion that there was life on that planet.	The professor told to the media persons that from your research you have come to the conclusion that there is life on that planet.	3		ENG Narration Prelims-53
Select the option that expresses the given sentence in indirect speech.<br>Kamal said, “I have done my work.”	Kamal said I have done my work.	Kamal said that he has done his work.	Kamal said that I have done my work.	Kamal said that he had done his work.	4		ENG Narration Prelims-54
Directions: Select the option that expresses the given sentence in reported speech.<br>The French scientist said, “I want to study how bees and wasps find their way home.”	The French scientist said that I wanted to study how bees and wasps find their way home.	The French scientist said that he wants to study how bees and wasps found your way home.	The French scientist said that I want to study how bees and wasps found their way home.	The French scientist said that he wanted to study how bees and wasps found their way home.	4		ENG Narration Prelims-55
Select the option that expresses the given sentence in indirect speech.<br>The counter clerk asked the visitor, “What is your name?”	The counter clerk asks the visitor your name.	The counter clerk has asked the visitor his name.	The counter clerk is asking the visitor your name.	The counter clerk asked the visitor his name.	4		ENG Narration Prelims-56
Select the option that expresses the given sentence in indirect speech.<br>“Alas, I have broken my brother’s watch!” said he.	He exclaimed with sorrow that he may have broken his brother’s watch.	He exclaimed with sorrow I have broken my brother’s watch.	He exclaimed with sorrow that he has broken his brother’s watch.	He exclaimed with sorrow that he had broken his brother’s watch.	4		ENG Narration Prelims-57
Directions: Select the option that expresses the given sentence in indirect speech.<br>Kruti asked Gopal, “Have you heard the news about the inauguration of the new bridge?&quot;	Kruti asked to Gopal you have heard the news about the inauguration of the new bridge.	Kruti asked Gopal if he had heard the news about the inauguration of the new bridge.	Kruti asked Gopal if they have heard the news about the inauguration of the new bridge.	Kruti asked Gopal if you have hear the news about the inauguration of the new bridge.	2		ENG Narration Prelims-58
Direction: Select the option that expresses the given sentence in reported speech.<br>&quot;I live in Mumbai,&quot; she said.	She said that she had been living in Mumbai.	She says that she was living in Mumbai	She said that she lived in Mumbai.	She said that she has been living in Mumbai.	3		ENG Narration Prelims-59
Direction: Select the option that expresses the given sentence in reported speech.<br>He said to me, &quot;It was raining all day.&quot;	He told me it is raining all day	He told me it was raining all day.	He told me that it had been raining all day.	He told me it has been raining all day.	3		ENG Narration Prelims-60
Select the option that expresses the given sentence in indirect speech.<br>Nelson said, “I was playing cricket.”	Nelson said that he was playing cricket.	Nelson said that he had been playing cricket.	Nelson said I was playing cricket.	Nelson said that I was playing cricket.	2		ENG Narration Prelims-61
Select the option that expresses the given sentence in direct speech.<br>He asked me when I had booked the flight tickets.	He said to me, “When did you book the flight tickets?”	He said to me, “When are you booking the flight tickets?”	He said to me, “When do you book the flight tickets?”	He said to me, “When you had book the flight tickets?”	1		ENG Narration Prelims-62
Select the correct indirect speech form of the given sentence.<br>Mother said to me, &quot;I'm worried about your safety.&quot;	Mother told me that she had been worried about my safety.	Mother told me that she was worried about my safety.	Mother said she is worried about your safety.	Mother said that I was worrying about your safety.	2		ENG Narration Prelims-63
Select the option that expresses the given sentence in indirect speech.<br>She said, “The stars are shining brightly tonight.”	She asked if the stars were shining brightly that night.	She said that the stars were shining brightly that night.	She said the stars were shining brightly tonight.	She said the stars are shining brightly tonight.	2		ENG Narration Prelims-64
Select the option that expresses the given sentence in reported speech.<br>Mother said, “Abhinav slipped while trying to board a bus.”	Mother told that Abhinav slipped while trying to board a bus.	Mother says that Abhinav slipped while trying to board a bus.	Mother said that Abhinav had slipped while trying to board a bus.	Mother said that Abhinav slipped while trying to board a bus.	3		ENG Narration Prelims-65
Select the option that expresses the given sentence in reported speech.<br>She said, “It is too good to be true.”	She said it were too good to be true.	She said that it was too good to be true.	She is saying that it is too good to be true.	She says that it is too good to be true.	2		ENG Narration Prelims-66
Select the option that expresses the given sentence in reported speech.<br>The teacher said, “Asif, go and wash your hands.”	The teacher told Asif go and wash your hands.	The teacher told Asif go and wash his hands.	The teacher told to Asif to go and wash his hands.	The teacher told Asif to go and wash his hands.	4		ENG Narration Prelims-67
Select the option that expresses the given sentence in direct speech.<br>Manan said that he had no work to do that day.	Manan said, “Have I no work to do today?”	Manan said, “I have no work to do today.”	Manan says, “I had no work to do that day.”	Manan said, “I have no work to do that day.”	2		ENG Narration Prelims-68
Select the correct indirect speech form of the given sentence.<br>The teacher said, &quot;You must work hard for your exams.&quot;	The teacher was telling her students to work hard for their exams.	The teacher told students for working hard for their exams.	The teacher advised her students to work hard for their exams.	The teacher was advising her students to do work hard for their exams.	3		ENG Narration Prelims-69
Select the option that expresses the given sentence in indirect speech.<br>She said to her, “Will you ready my suit tomorrow?&quot;	She asked her that if she would ready her suit tomorrow	She asked her if she would ready her suit the next day.	She asked her if she would ready her suit tomorrow.	She said her if she would ready her suit tomorrow.	2		ENG Narration Prelims-70
Select the option that expresses the given sentence in indirect speech.<br>Ajay says, “There is going to be a snowfall.”	Ajay said that there is going to be a snowfall.	Ajay said that there was going to be a snowfall.	Ajay says that there was going to be a snowfall.	Ajay says that there is going to be a snowfall.	4		ENG Narration Prelims-71
Select the option that expresses the given sentence in indirect speech.<br>“Please allow me to leave now,” Ritika said to her teacher.	Ritika requested my teacher to allow her to leave now.	Ritika requested her teacher to allow her to leave then.	Ritika requested her teacher to allow me to leave now.	Ritika requested her teacher to allow me to leave then.	2		ENG Narration Prelims-72
Select the option that expresses the given sentence in indirect speech.<br>They cried, “Bravo! Well done.”	They shouted in joy that they had done well.	They cried in joy for doing well.	They cried loudly for doing well.	They exclaimed with wonder that they had done well.	1		ENG Narration Prelims-73
Select the option that expresses the given sentence in indirect speech.<br>“What is Sonia saying?” said Rohit.	Rohit asked what was Sonia saying.	Rohit asked that what was Sonia saying.	Rohit asked what is Sonia saying.	Rohit asked what Sonia was saying.	4		ENG Narration Prelims-74
Select the option that expresses the given sentence in direct speech. <br>She asked me what my favourite cuisine was.	She said to me, &quot;What is your favourite cuisine?&quot;	She said to me, &quot;What my favourite cuisine is?&quot;	She said to me, &quot;What is my favourite cuisine?&quot;	She said to me, &quot;What your favourite cuisine was?&quot;	1		ENG Narration Prelims-75
Select the option that expresses the given sentence in direct speech.<br>The guard told the children to stay away from the flower beds.	The guard said, “Children, should you stay away from the flower beds.”	The guard said, “Children, stay away from the flower beds.”	The guard told to the children, “ Stay away from the flower beds.”	The guard says to the children, “ Stay away from the flower beds.”	2		ENG Narration Prelims-76
Select the option that expresses the given sentence in indirect speech.<br>She said to him, “May God shower his choicest blessings on you!	She wished that God might shower his choicest blessings on him.	She wished that may God shower your choicest blessings on Him.	She wished that God might shower his choicest blessings on you.	She wished that God may shower his choicest blessings on you.	1		ENG Narration Prelims-77
Select the option that expresses the given sentence in indirect speech.<br>She said to me, “I saw this old man long ago.”	She told me that she had seen that old man long before.	She told to me that she had seen that old man long before.	She said to me that she had seen that old man long ago.	She said me that she had seen this old man long ago.	1		ENG Narration Prelims-78
Select the option that expresses the given sentence in direct speech.<br>She exclaimed with sorrow that life had become miserable.	She said, “How miserable had become life!”	She said, “Oh! What miserable life will become.”	She said, “Life has become miserable.”	She said, “Alas! How miserable life has become.”	4		ENG Narration Prelims-79
Select the option that expresses the given sentence in reported speech.<br>Mother said to her, “I expected a better result from you.”	Mother told her that she was expecting a better result from you.	Mother told her that she expected a better result from you.	Mother told her that she expected a better result from her.	Mother told her that she had expected a better result from her.	4		ENG Narration Prelims-80
Select the option that expresses the given sentence in indirect speech.<br>He said to me, “Do you own this beautiful car?”	He asked me that if you owned this beautiful car.	He asked me if I owned that beautiful car.	He asked to me if you own that beautiful car.	He asked me did I own that beautiful car.	2		ENG Narration Prelims-81
Select the option that expresses the given sentence in indirect speech.<br>Manoj said to Mira, "Do not try to make a fool of me".	Manoj told Mira not to try to make a fool of him.	Manoj told Mira to not try to make a fool of me.	Manoj told Mira do not try to make a fool of him.	Manoj told Mira to not to try to make a fool of me.	1		ENG Narration Prelims-82
Select the correct indirect form of the given sentence.<br>She said, “I am in no mood to work now.”	She said that she has been in no mood to work then.	She said that she was in no mood to work now.	She said that she was in no mood to work then.	She said that she has been in no mood to work now.	3		ENG Narration Prelims-83
Select the correct direct form of the given sentence.<br>He said that something might be missing in there.	He said, "Something may be missing in here."	He said, "Something had to be missing in there."	He said, "Something is been missing in here."	He said, "Something could be missing in here."	1		ENG Narration Prelims-84
Select the correct direct form of the given sentence.<br>She asked me why I had been smoking that day.	She said to me, “Why were you smoking today?”	She said to me, “Why are you smoking today?”	She said to me, “Why you smoke today?”	She says to me, “Why were you smoking this day?”	1		ENG Narration Prelims-85
Select the correct indirect form of the given sentence.<br>She said to me, “The charlatan will be breaking into the safe.”	She told me that the charlatan would be breaking into the safe.	She said to me that the charlatan will be breaking in the safe.	She said to me that the charlatan can be breaking into the safe.	She said to me that the charlatan is breaking into the safe.	1		ENG Narration Prelims-86
Select the most appropriate option to substitute the underlined segment in the given sentence.<br>Abu said that <u>he saw the picture</u>.	he has seen the picture	he will have seen the picture	he would have seen the picture	he had seen the picture	4		ENG Narration Prelims-87
Select the correct direct form of the given sentence.<br>Shyam asked me how I had persuaded his sister.	"How are you persuading my sister?” Shyam asked me	"How did you persuaded my sister?” Shyam asked me.	"How did you persuade my sister?” Shyam asked me.	"How have you persuade my sister?” Shyam asks me.	3		ENG Narration Prelims-87
Select the correct direct form of the given sentence.<br>Mr. Sharma asked him if Maya had invited him for lunch.	Mr. Sharma said to him, "Has Maya invited you for lunch?"	Mr. Sharma said to me, "Has Maya invited you for lunch?"	Mr. Sharma said to him, "Had Maya invited us for lunch?"	Mr. Sharma said to him, "Did Maya invited us for lunch?"	1		ENG Narration Prelims-88
Select the correct indirect form of the given sentence.<br>She said, “She must leave all the bad habits.”	She said she has to leave all the bad habits	She said that she must have leave all the bad habits	She said that she had to leave all the bad habits.	She said that she could leave all the bad habits	3		ENG Narration Prelims-89
Select the correct indirect form of the given sentence.<br>Priya said, "Yes, I am confounded."	Priya admitted that she was confound.	Priya admit that she was confounded.	Priya admitted that she was confounded.	Priya admitted that she is confounded.	3		ENG Narration Prelims-90
Select the correct indirect form of the given sentence.<br>Latika said to him, "I got a hefty discount on this television."	Latika told him that she has got a hefty discount on that television.	Latika told him that she is getting a hefty discount on that television.	Latika told him that she had got a hefty discount on that television.	Latika told him that she has got a hefty discount on this television.	3		ENG Narration Prelims-91
Select the correct direct form of the given sentence.<br>The surgeon says that I should get anaesthesia for the surgery.	The surgeon says, “You should get anaesthesia for the surgery.”	The surgeon says, “I should get anaesthesia for the surgery.”	The surgeon said, “You should get anaesthesia for the surgery.”	The surgeon says, “You could get anaesthesia for the surgery.”	1		ENG Narration Prelims-92
Select the option that expresses the given sentence in indirect speech.<br>He said, 'Let us wait for the award.'	He proposed that they should wait for the award.	He said that he should wait for the award.	He proposed that he should wait for the award.	He said that they should waited for the award.	1		ENG Narration Prelims-93
Select the correct direct form of the given sentence.<br>Leena said that his relatives were landing the next day.	Leena said, "My relatives land tomorrow."	Leena said, "His relatives are landing today."	Leena said, "His relatives were landing tomorrow."	Leena said, "His relatives are landing tomorrow."	4		ENG Narration Prelims-93
Select the correct indirect form of the given sentence.<br>Kavya said to her husband, “I don’t mind being a busy woman.”	Kavya told her husband that she had not mind being a busy woman.	Kavya told her husband that she do not mind being a busy woman.	Kavya said to her husband she did not mind being a busy woman.	Kavya told her husband that she did not mind being a busy woman.	4		ENG Narration Prelims-94
Select the correct indirect form of the given sentence.<br>Priya assured me, “I can stay in tonight.”	Priya told me that she could stay in this night.	Priya told me that she could stay in that night.	Priya told me that she could stay in tonight.	Priya told me that she can stay in that night.	2		ENG Narration Prelims-95
Select the correct direct form of the given sentence.<br>Aryan told me that I knew where to find him.	Aryan said to me, "You know where to find me."	Aryan said to me, "You knowing where to find me."	Aryan said to me, "You are known where to find me."	Aryan says to me, "You know where to find me."	1		ENG Narration Prelims-96
Select the correct direct form of the given sentence.<br>John said that he was there to resolve that fight for them.	John says, "I am here to resolve this fight for you.”	John said to me, "You are here to resolve this fight for you.”	John said, "I am here to resolve this fight for you.”	John said, "I was here to resolve this fight for you.”	3		ENG Narration Prelims-97
Select the correct indirect form of the given sentence.<br>Madhurima explained, “I am planning to quit my graduation.”	Madhurima explained that she were planning to quit her graduation.	Madhurima explained that she planned to quit her graduation.	Madhurima explained that she was planning to quit her graduation.	Madhurima explained that she had been planning to quit her graduation.	3		ENG Narration Prelims-98
Select the correct direct form of the given sentence.<br>Raveena asked me if I had her maid's number.	Raveena asked me, "Do you have my maid's number?"	Raveena asked me, "Are you having my maid's number."	Raveena said to me, "Does you have my maid's number."	Raveena asked to me, "Have you have my maid's number."	1		ENG Narration Prelims-99
Select the option that expresses the given sentence in indirect speech.<br>He said to him, "Is your name not Ahmed?"	He enquired is your name not Ahmed.	He enquired whether his name was not Ahmed.	He said whether his name was not Ahmed.	He said is your name not Ahmed.	2		ENG Narration Prelims-99
Select the correct indirect form of the given sentence.<br>Radha said, “Why didn’t he forward his petition to me?”	Radha enquired why he had not forwarded his petition to her.	Radha enquired why he has not forwarded his petition to her.	Radha enquired why had he not forwarded his petition to her.	Radha enquired why he had not forward his petition to her.	1		ENG Narration Prelims-100
Select the correct indirect form of the given sentence.<br>“We had opened the lock.” they told me.	They said that we had opened the lock.	They said to me that they have opened the lock.	They told me that they had opened the lock.	They says that we had opened the lock.	3		ENG Narration Prelims-101
Select the correct direct form of the given sentence.<br>Professor told me that I could not rescue myself from that bait.	Professor says to me, “You cannot rescue yourself from this bait.”	Professor said to me, “You have not rescued yourself from this bait.”	Professor said to us, “You cannot rescue yourself from this bait.”	Professor said to me, “You cannot rescue yourself from this bait.”	4		ENG Narration Prelims-102
Select the correct direct form of the given sentence.<br>She said that she could not believe him.	She said, “You cannot believe him.”	She said, “I may not believe him.”	She said, “I cannot believe him.”	She says, “I could not believed him.”	3		ENG Narration Prelims-103
Select the correct direct form of the given sentence.<br>The secretary assures the audience that he/she is going to help them.	The secretary said to the audience, “I am going to help you.”	The secretary says to the audience, “I am going to help you.”	The secretary says to the audience, “I was going to help you.”	The secretary says to the audience, “I will be going to help you.”	2		ENG Narration Prelims-104
Select the correct indirect form of the given sentence.<br>She said to me, “You will speak at the conference tomorrow.”	She told me that I would speak at the conference that day.	She told me that I might speak at the conference the next day.	She told me that I will speak at the conference the today.	She told me that I would speak at the conference the next day.	4		ENG Narration Prelims-104
Select the correct direct form of the given sentence.<br>We asked them who had called them.	We said to them, "Who are calling you?"	We said to them, "Who calls you?"	We said to them, "Who has called him?"	We said to them, "Who has called you?"	4		ENG Narration Prelims-106
Select the correct indirect form of the given sentence.<br>The blind man said to me, “Can you help me cross the road?”	The blind man asked me if I could help him cross the road.	The blind man asked me if I will help him cross the road.	The blind man asked me if I could help him crossed the road.	The blind man asked me if I can help him cross the road.	1		ENG Narration Prelims-107
Select the correct indirect form of the given sentence.<br>The professor said, “I want you to pursue your dreams”	The professor said that I want you to pursue your dreams.	The professor said that he wanted me to pursue my dreams.	The professor says that he wants me to pursue my dreams.	The professor told me that I wanted you to pursue your dreams.	2		ENG Narration Prelims-108
Select the correct indirect form of the given sentence.<br>Anita said to the mother, “Your child has been crying since morning.”	Anita told the mother that her child was crying since morning.	Anita told the mother that her child had been crying since morning.	Anita told the mother that her child had been cry since morning.	Anita told the mother that your child had been crying since morning.	2		ENG Narration Prelims-109
Select the correct direct form of the given sentence.<br>Rohan asked me if Rohit still cried.	Rohan said to me, “Did Rohit still cry?”	Rohan says to me, “Does Rohit still cry?”	Rohan said to me, “Does Rohit still cry?”	Rohan said to me, “Has Rohit still cried?”	3		ENG Narration Prelims-110
Select the correct direct form of the given sentence.<br>He said that he was sorry for all that.	“I am sorry for all then.” He says.	“I was sorry for all this.” He said.	“I am sorry for all that.” He says.	“I am sorry for all this.” He said.	4		ENG Narration Prelims-111
Select the correct direct form of the given sentence.<br>The doctor said that they had performed their bit.	The doctor said, “We will be performing our bit."	The doctor said, “We are performing our bit."	The doctor said, “We have performed our bit."	The doctor says, “We had performed our bit."	3		ENG Narration Prelims-112
Select the correct direct form of the given sentence.<br>The old man asked the boy where the postman was.	The old man says to the boy, “Where is the postman?”	The old man said to the boy, “Where has been the postman?”	The old man said to the boy, “Where is the postman?”	The old man said to the boy, “Where was the postman?”	3		ENG Narration Prelims-113
Select the correct indirect form of the given sentence.<br>“Meena, will you assist me to pack our belongings?” asked her mother.	Meena's mother asked her whether she will assist her to pack their belongings.	Meena's mother asked her whether if she would assist her to pack their belongings	Meena's mother asked her whether she would assist her to pack their belongings.	Meena's mother asked her whether she can assist her to pack their belongings.	3		ENG Narration Prelims-114
Select the correct indirect form of the given sentence.<br>Renu said to her brother, “You were watching the show without me.”	Renu told her brother that he had been watching the show without her.	Renu told her brother that he has been watching the show without her.	Renu told her brother that he had watched the show without her.	Renu told her brother that he were watching the show without her.	1		ENG Narration Prelims-115
Select the correct indirect form of the given sentence.<br>Ramita said, “I wish I didn’t have to meet my step-mother.”	Ramita said she wished she hadn’t have to meet her step-mother.	Ramita said she wished she didn’t meet her step-mother.	Ramita said she wished she didn’t have to meet her step-mother.	Ramita said she wished hadn’t met her step-mother.	3		ENG Narration Prelims-116
Select the correct indirect form of the given sentence.<br>He says to Gayatri, “You are writing an apology to the warden.”	He told Gayatri that she is writing an apology to the warden.	He tells Gayatri that she is writing an apology to the warden.	He says to Gayatri that she was writing an apology to the warden.	He tells Gayatri that she was writing an apology to the warden.	2		ENG Narration Prelims-117
Select the correct direct form of the given sentence.<br>Meena said that her parents were getting divorced.	Meena said, "My parents get divorced."	Meena said, "My parents are getting divorced."	Meena said, "My parents will be getting divorced."	Meena said, "My parents were getting divorced."	2		ENG Narration Prelims-118
Select the correct direct form of the given sentence.<br>Shravan said that the prisoner had slept throughout the journey.	Shravan said, "The prisoner sleeps throughout the journey."	Shravan said, "The prisoner had been sleeping throughout the journey."	Shravan says, "The prisoner has slept throughout the journey."	Shravan said, "The prisoner had slept throughout the journey."	4		ENG Narration Prelims-119
Select the correct direct form of the given sentence.<br>My teacher forbids to trust one’s relatives.	My teacher says, “Never trust your relatives.”	My teacher says, “Never trust my relatives.”	My teacher says, “Never trusted your relatives.”	My teacher said “Never trust your relatives.”	1		ENG Narration Prelims-120
Select the correct indirect form of the given sentence.<br>Farah said to her aunt, “I am studying contemporary art.”	Farah told her aunt that she was study contemporary art.	Farah told her aunt that she is studying contemporary art.	Farah told her aunt that she had been studying contemporary art.	Farah told her aunt that she was studying contemporary art.	4		ENG Narration Prelims-121
Select the correct direct form of the given sentence.<br>She tells me that I am her lucky charm.	She says to me, "You was my lucky charm."	She said to me, "You are my lucky charm."	She says to me, "I am your lucky charm."	She says to me, "You are my lucky charm."	4		ENG Narration Prelims-122